
 I. Schematics and PCB

 Schematics file is made in P-CAD 2001 and can be found in "sch_pcb" drawer.
Also there are #?.pdf and #?.png pictures of the schematics.

 PCB file is also in P-CAD 2001 format.

 You can use free P-CAD 2006 viewer (schematics and PCB) available at
www.pcad.com.


 II. Bill Of Materials

1.  EPM7032SLC44-10 or ATF1502AS10JC44 device in PLCC-44 package.  Either of
    them can be used.

2.  Through-hole PLCC-44 socket.

3.  Two 74157 or 74257 logic ICs in SOIC-16 package.  Preferable are 74LS,
    74ALS or 74HCT series (thus giving you a choice like 74LS157, 74LS257,
    etc.), though you can try even 74F or 74ACT.  DO NOT use 74HC or 74AC
    devices, as they are not TTL-levels compatible and therefore may not
    work.

4.  Not less than 18 SMD 0805- or 1206-sized 0.1uF capacitors.  They are
    easy to lose so have some extra of them.

5.  3 SMD 0805- or 1206-sized 10k resistors.  Of course, you can take 11k or
    so.

6.  SMD PLCC-68 socket. Have 2 or 3 of them. Why? See below.

7.  Four DRAM chips. See below which ones.

8.  IDC10M connector.  This is only needed if you are going to program CPLD
    within board using ByteBlasterMV hardware (see FIRMWARE.txt).

9.  three or four through-hole 10uF (16V or more) electrolytic capacitors as
    shown on the photos for the additional stability of the board.


 III. DRAM chips.

 Asynchronous DRAM chips are generally outdated and hard to find now.
Synchronous SDRAM chips are much easier to find, though they require
over-complicated hardware to use with old-fashioned hardware like Amigas.
This is why older asynchronous DRAM is used in this design.

 The DRAMs needed are 1-megaword 16bit DRAMs, 70 or 60 ns (slower may not
work), which are commonly found in old 4 or 8 Mb SIMMs.  They must be in SOJ
package with 42 pins.  Note that 4 or 8 Mb SIMMs can have other packages of
DRAM chips, which are not applicable for this design.

 Sometimes the chips required have names like NN5118160AJ-60,
GM71C18160AJ7, TMS418160***-60 or so. where key numbers are 8160, which
denotes required organisation and pinout and 6,60, 7 or 70, which denotes
speed of 60 or 70 ns.

 If no such digits found, the 42-pin SOJes can be still applicaple, as there
are standard JEDEC pinout for the given chips as well as functional
specifications.

 Anyway, try to find datasheet for the chip before soldering it on the board.

 Typically you should take usual 4 or 8 Mb SIMM not slower than 70 ns with
required chips soldered on it.  Then you should desolder them and solder
onto the board.  The 4 Mb SIMMs are preferable because they are easier to
desolder.


 IV. PLCC socket over 68000 CPU.

 First, remember that such way of connecting the board to the Amiga600 is a
PURE HACK.  There is always a possibility that such a connection will fail
the other day.

 The socked used is SMD and therefore low-profile.  Thus you should solder
it raised over PCB and with some angle to it, as it can be seen on the
photos.  The idea is to allow for the socket to fit firmly over the CPU
while not permitting physical contact with the Amiga motherboard by far
board edges.

 To achieve this, bend pins of the socket before soldering so that it lies
over and within the required angle on the PCB.  You can make two or more
iterations with soldering-desoldering sockets before you get a success and a
good contact.

 It is also desirable to break the bottom of PLCC SMD socket before
soldering also to get good contact (lay it upside down and press on the
bottom firmly).

 To ensure best fit over the 68000 CPU, file the soldered socket a little as
shown, to ensure that some SMD components near the CPU won't prevent it to
fit.

 Additionally you improve connectibility by bending up contacts of socket
with some type of little hook (made of paper-clip for example) to the angle
of 20-30 degrees from initial position.

WARNING!  Put a layer or two of the insulating tape over the metal surface
of some of Amiga600 components under the RAM board to prevent electrical
short-circuit, which will lead to Amiga damage.


 V. Soldering everything together.

 Use photos provided as the mount layout.  First solder all the capacitors
and resistors, then solder DRAM chips.  They have their first pin towards
upper-left edge of the board.  The logic '157 or '257 ICs have their first
pin towards bottom-left edge.


 VI. Turning the power on.

 If made from functioning and correctly programmed parts, the board will
start and autoconfigure immediately at startup.  When the boot-up process
ends or with "avail" CLI command, you should then see 8 Mb of fast ram
available.  The board should identify itself as shown on the photos.

 If no fast memory appears, the Amiga hangs, works unstable, or shows Yellow
Screen instead of booting, the most probable cause is the bad contact in the
CPU socket.  See section IV and correct.

 A simple fast memory test is provided in "test" drawer.  It is an amiga
executable file with an assembler source.  It is not a complete memory
tester, but if it runs smoothly for ten hours or so, you can assume you have
won ;)


 VII. Errata

 There is small deficiency on the PCB, which can affect in-system CPLD
programming.  The TCK pin of CPLD is pulled up instead of being pulled low
to the ground.  If you are not going to program CPLD in-system, leave it so
and don't bother, otherwise the fix as shown may be required (solder
resistor vertically to the pad and connect other end with the ground).
